=Zabbix Appliance Setup=

All plugins in this projected have been tested on the openSUSE appliance from Zabbix. And all instructions for the setup and configuration of plugins are geared towards the Zabbix appliance. However similar steps can be followed for other Linux and Zabbix supported `*`ix platforms.

Download the Zabbix appliance or compile/setup an appropriate Zabbix server using Zabbix's download link http://www.zabbix.com/download.php. Note that Zabbix appliance and Zabbix server are used interchangeably in the instructions that follow.

Follow the Zabbix documentation (http://www.zabbix.com/documentation/) on compiling & configuring a Zabbix server or setting up the Zabbix appliance. Ensure that the Zabbix server is setup and working correctly. If  using the Zabbix appliance, ensure that the ports for the Zabbix server and agent are open in the firewall using the following commands:
  * SuSEfirewall2 open EXT TCP zabbix-trapper zabbix-agent
  * SuSEfirewall2 stop
  * SuSEfirewall2 start

The Zabbix appliance uses DHCP based network/IP configuration. Later, when you feel comfortable with the appliance and openSUSE, you can setup a fixed IP address and further customize other aspects of the appliance.

Next, ensure that you can login to the Zabbix UI/front-end (user = admin, password = zabbix). See the Zabbix documentation for details.

Ensure that you can login to the Zabbix UI/front-end (user = admin, password = zabbix). See the Zabbix documentation for details.

Next login to the Zabbix appliance from the console as root (password = zabbix) and create a directory /etc/zabbix/externalscripts. Change the owner/group of the directory to zabbix/zabbix. This directory contains the scripts that are bundled with the mikoomi plugins.

Now you are all ready to install mikoomi plugins and start monitoring!